# Traditional SEO vs AI Search Optimization (GEO, AEO) - #SEOFOMO TL;DR June 9, 2025

**Channel:** Crawling Mondays by Aleyda
**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4cu882OJ8E
**Date Retrieved:** April 2026

---

## Transcript

Let's go to the latest in SEO news and AI search. In today's SEO to learn, didn't read. In today's edition, I have the great company of Chris Green, who's the technical director at Torque Partnerships. Hello, Chris. Thank you very much for Thank you for having me. Pleasure. I want to thank Similar Web who's our today's sponsor. Let's go through the top news in SEO because there's so much going on. The first one is this boss that I did covering Google AI modes adoption versus other verticals via similar web click stream data in desktop in the US. They had shared some initial data a few days ago but then I asked if they could please follow up given a little bit of context how does this relate with the other tabs with the other search verticals that Google has. They sent that to me and additionally they also share the data of the latest days too which shows that pretty much the growth had peaked. It actually became flat. I mean when you initially shared the data that didn't have that context it still felt a little high. I know like 1% isn't large but relative to all US search if if we extrapol like that's that felt high like as as a general stat but when you compare it to news and shopping which is sort of 1 to 2% depending maybe 3% on a good day this feels like a significant change or difference perhaps more surprising to me is how few people are clicking on shopping and news and I think as those two streams are relatively small I know the SERs are integrating those that might remove the need to click on that tab. But this feels high. It's such a short time frame and I'd love to see what the the tale of that is and it stretching off. But I would imagine this will increase. It will have to I think Google are going to make it a feature that it will increase whether or not we can read it as people liking it or not. We need to realize that so far this is highly tied to the inclusion of AI overviews. At the end of the day, a lot of AI overviews are very connected right now withformational type of queries, not necessarily that much of transactional commercial because of the implications. Now Google has started to show adverts in AI overviews. So my feeling is that now that they have uh a way to monetize them, the shorter inclusion of AI overviews for this more commercially oriented queries will increase on one hand and also more people will be I guess also incentivized to click more on continue digging on AI mode and also eventually what you mentioned too what if Google starts to showcase AI mode first for many scenarios in the future, right? pushing the user more towards an AI mode experience whenever they feel ready that they are monetizing AI mode too because this is what pretty much restricts them. Let's see how this evolves in any case in the next week. I will keep you updated. The second news that I want to cover today is connected to that is the SEO versus G or AIO or whatever we want to call it. I want to continue and I will keep this updated showing the differences and similarities to it and to make it even clearer. Not only I expanded the the areas showcasing the level of difference of each activity of the different areas from user search behavior optimizations areas. I also expanded here to include the results presentation and delivery because these were a lot actually changes and impacts of course the behavior and also the goals and metrics. Each one of them have now a much more specific explanation and much more straightforward let's say difference level that hopefully allow us to understand what actually changes or not and I believe that here it is pretty clear that in the optimizations areas the concepts let's say the areas themselves are very very similar but the way that they actually change versus each other is many times the way that it is executed or should be executed because of the query final technique that LLM or AI search relies on for example the level of personalization for example and in the case of the user behavior of course it is highly highly impacted by the very big difference in the results presentation and delivery. So hopefully this will help to clarify many of the doubts or how different it is or not how much do we need to change or not. I think for me the starkest contrast right now is how we track and report on it. I think this highlights and and we kind of look out there is how a lot of the old paradigms of tracking, reporting, the tools we might have used seem to feel very old and very dated very quickly because the interface is different. How the results are generated is different. The significance in how you track the results, what search console gives you, for example. A lot of that is so fundamentally different that it it has caused a really sharp turn or a need for us to to really look at it, I think. and visualizing it in this way has shown how stuck that kind of contrast is. It's a lot different in a way that scares me because frankly we as an industry have already solved a lot of these problems one two or three times since SEO has been kind of a thing. I mean this is probably one of the most significant changes I've ever seen. The thing that I take comfort from though, however, is a lot of what the industry has pivoted to over the last, I guess, two years around what good or quality looks like. A lot of that is still close enough that it doesn't represent a complete change of actually what we do. I think this shows that the detail and the minutia is very different. There's a lot of learning. There's a lot of things we need to change. But then when we translate that into something that's actually useful or implementable, it doesn't change that much. Not that it's directionally different, isn't it? I guess I'm extrapolating this piece of content to what everyone needs to do and it is just kind of chill a little bit like write down everything. How does it actually change what you need to do now? What do you need to act on right now versus the future? Going back to the data you were showing the first piece like it's one to two% right now. I know there's there's there's this kind of worry of this existential threat that is around the corner. you know, when AIM mode takes over, it's like it may do, it may do in a similar format, but we're not here yet. This is this is the perfect time to kind of prepare to calm yourself, to calm your stakeholders. This week in particular, this guide attracted a lot of popularity, a lot of attention, and I can understand why is a guide from world lifts durat explaining AI mode in simple terms, a clear guide to the new era of search results. And he goes with very layman terms and in a very actionable way explaining what it is and how it works. the real implications in how we do things. Where is query fan out which might sound very complicated and sophisticated is like Google ask many question not just one in parallel right building a custom corpus AI creates a personal bookshelves or lls assemble the answer I work like a team of editors right so I love how he explained this in very simple terms giving comparisons and what it means for SEOs and content creators very actionable tips specific tips that we can start incorporating eating. I like this piece firstly because the objective of this piece is to help people understand it and I don't feel that's shared across everything that's been written so far. I think this is this is one of the first that's seems really to the primary objective is let's bring everyone for the journey along for the journey and I'm I've always got so much time for that because you know that conduit that communication is the most important for us to all get on board. I think for me there's a couple of elements from here that really stuck with me. First one, and this is kind of a a drum I've been banging or a sermon I keep making for for years. It's it's ranking versus visibility. Like this, the ranking paradigm is been changing beyond a point of usefulness for a while now. A mode comes out and everyone says, "Oh, rank trackers are are now useless or they need to fundamentally change what they do." what they do. I think the SEO industry has needed to really change how we consider ranking for a while because personalization 10 blue link paradigm has been dead for almost as long as it hasn't um and various like that. But what's really powerful about this here is that you have to be visible in the contexts that are valuable to you. So an arbitrary keyword search at a given point at a given time repeated daily, weekly or monthly is no longer a great proxy for actually how well you perform. And I think that's if now is when people don't listen to that, like there's almost no hope for them. They're lost, you know, just just keep going in that direction. So I think that's super useful. I think I know um Mike's also issued um a challenge to the tool part tool industry within SEO that basically said you're you're not rising up to meet the challenge yet and I would say he's right but also give them chance it's kind of still fairly new but I think you mentioned we talked before like the tool providers this been an influx over the last couple of days and I think that the next couple of weeks and months we'll see we'll see an explosion and then you maybe there'll be too many in a couple of months time but so that was really key and then The other part that's really um stuck with me is the whole think in passages, not pages element. And this is this is for me this is the really important part. I like custom bookshelf analogy, but I've been thinking it more as if like we're all scrapbooking. Like we're all taking snippets from things we like and we're all putting them together to create something for us. I think Google is now scrapbooking for us and and I think this is recognition that a single page has never been enough for that person at that time. And if you think about the range of different intents that people have, the fact that when people search, they might not even know what the right result for them is. Like this kind of gluing together of all of these various passages is so intrinsic to just making this experience quicker. And we have to stop thinking of the page as the document and of the parts of the different journeys. And that's again that's that's a big mindset shift for most people because again SEOs like we have been preoccupied with URLs with information architecture across URLs with clusters of content like make it very obvious for search engines that oh this page is about this should rank for this. The one thing that's missing here and this isn't necessarily criticism of this blog but this is of the overall conversation is is the talk of originality. The SEO FOMO event back in London where we had Gary and one of his sort of more candid moments was around the focus on originality. Like if you have all of the world's data and you've got to try and pick these passages that are most important, like how do we signify that we have the original take and we're not a summary of a summary? And I I think I don't know if if we if it's just because we don't know how we're going to address the originality piece or how Google is going to do it properly in this new kind of vector space world, but I still we're still missing that a little bit. I think we're still at a little bit of a risk of saying query fan out means lots of FAQs everywhere in short chunks and we'll just keep turning that out. And I I think if I if I want to see any more and I I need to do some stuff myself on this is how do we factor originality into this? That's a really good point, especially because AI generate content out there. So, this ties very well with this piece from Amanda Keen about revisiting useful content in the age of AI dominated search and connects also well with this other article that performed really well and I'm not surprised why because it's actually HubSpot sharing how they create quality content in the age of AI. So it's a little bit of two guides that cover pretty much the same thing but in different ways with different angles. The key here is thinking about the customer not necessarily your popularity and so on and thinking about the business and staying on topic with your business on brand with your business content and focusing on creating or building an authority towards what actually matters for your product or service expertise at the end of the day. She provides very specific examples here goes through actions taking into account also the Google quality raers guidance that makes total sense. So I love how actionable this advice this is how brand also recognition and authorities is created and in the case of HubSpot I love in particular this graph that they created about what is quality content because this is such a topic that is so ambiguous right as top content that helps your audience and that drives business goals. So the intersection of this is what will allow you to create this information that actually makes sense for you rather than thinking oh is this something that LLM will be able to speed out anyway and the user will be satisfied and won't generate traffic anyway and it's pointless because of that. No, no, no. Different metrics, different goals and this is content that even with zero clicks will still be valuable for us because it actually communicates what we do and establish the real expertise or unique position of our company and business the authority of it right I think for me the these two pieces are super super useful because this is the next question in our kind of our journey isn't it is kind of like okay we're starting to fundamentally get get to the grips of what the implications of AI mode are. But then there's the but what do we do differently? How do we deal with it? I think the HubSpot one sticks out mostly because of where they actually start giving their own examples of how they're doing it. And some of the examples you can do because you're HubSpot. You know, there's a degree of scale and authority that comes behind it. But some of it, I think, isn't just that. And I think there are some real useful nuggets in here that you can kind of take away. I think a lot of people need to invest time into working out well what are the implications? How do we actually make this relevant to different brands? The writing content in chunks advice is useful but a lot of brands might not write specifically in that way or their brand voice might not be in like currently working alongside some of these new demands and requirements. So there's just a degree of how do we actually do it which I really enjoy and I find this stuff kind of interesting. The other thing that really how we might need to go back to personas again for our content journeys and I know like user personas is something that the marketing world either loves or hates depending on what month or year or how long it is. But the idea that the personalization element that mixes this up is say well you actually need to start working out what possible things might your specific customers want in much more depth because that might be rewarded more within the search experience. I know we've been saying that for years like personalize your content or make your content like useful for customers but search results haven't been that personalized really not significantly between people and minor minor personalization we haven't had to worry about it like I still think speaking more towards SEOs than wider marketers is we're still a little bit ignorant of and again speaking broadly but we're still ignorant of what our specific customers are trying to achieve. I think a lot of people haven't gone that extra mile and I think there is the need for that here. So again I found that equally equally interesting. The the final point is this also addresses another anxiety I think is here in the industry but maybe we're not worried enough about it is I don't really think a lot of SEOs truly understand what great and useful content is. A lot of trying and a lot of people are doing it and again I'm not speaking ill but it's when we get into let's scale it it's a 2,000word blog or for this client we're just going to employ the glossery technique. So, we're going to do definitions of everything. It's like, but you're doing that because it's a a trope or a a content genre that's in your playbook, but actually, is it the most useful thing to that given customer? Is that truly useful? I think that this pretty much boils down to how strategic you are, how much you actually understand the business. Unfortunately, in SEO, especially for a long, long while, we have gotten away too much on being checklist oriented, very tactical. And I understand and you make a really good point about not everybody has the resources of hotspot to scale stuff. So for example, speaking about originality, conduct original research to set yourself apart from AI and competitors. But who has the capacity to create the state of marketing report of their own industry, right? Like very few companies at the end of the day. But yes, because of resource constraints because we have had this incentive to create content at scale. I think that we should more about quality rather than volume as a whole. and thinking more strategically about what type of content is actually really needed to start wrapping up the last article here 12 new KPIs for the generative AI search era Dwayne Forester it's great to see how he goes to how this all metrics we have been taking so far a lot into consideration needs to be refreshed so speaking about chunks chunks retrieable frequency embeddings relevant score attribution rate in AI outputs AI citation count vector index presence retrieval confidence score. I believe that many of this overlap LLM answer coverage AI mode call success rate semantic density score. So again many of this more or less overlap with each other but I believe that three or four of this along with what ultimately ends up paying off being the goal of our work which is conversion revenue is what we need to start focusing more on. I also like that he provides useful tools and resources and data sources that we can start already using. We have mentioned we still need more insights, more tool, better features, but a lot of it is is already here in maybe in a little bit of a raw way, but it is here already. This is the start of the new conversation for me. I don't think this is the end where we end up, but I think this is absolutely fantastic and provocative piece to to make people see it. I I kind of think back to the SEO metric chain that I did where it's kind of like goes from technical to financial. It's like the those key business metrics as you said the what money are we making that's not going to change. We still need better attribution beyond the last click for SEO there. I think from a technical point of view for technical marketers that really want to understand how successful our content will be is is kind of a leading indicator. A lot of these feel like they have a huge amount of promise. I'm certainly going to go and test creating some of these. I don't imagine a lot of these will feature on any exec level or seuite reports anytime soon, but for for technical teams, I think Dwayne's done some of the most significant work I've seen in in the SEO space towards these metrics. Completely agree. So, thank you. Thank you very much for your time, Chris. It has been amazing to have your inputs, your insights, giving a refresh views, and different type of angles to this week's top news. And you don't need to wait until the next week in order to keep up with SEO. Go to the SEO for news. Remember to like today's video if you have liked it. Remember to check out Similar Web. They have one of the very few data sources that actually provide prompts in their AI traffic report. So definitely go and check it out. And thanks again for their sponsorship today. And thank you for watching our today's episode. Like it, subscribe it, don't miss it, and stay tuned for next week. Thank you very much again, and thanks Chris.
